# Frequently Asked Questions in Spring Framework 5: Beginner to Guru
## Getting Help with the Course
You have a number of options for getting help with your Spring Framework 5 course. See [this page](https://github.com/springframeworkguru/spring5webapp/wiki/Getting-Help-With-the-Course) for how to get help.
## Which IDE Should I Use
Please see this [page](https://github.com/springframeworkguru/spring5webapp/wiki/Which-IDE-to-Use%3F) for IDE related questions.
## Which Java Version?  
See this [page](https://github.com/springframeworkguru/spring5webapp/wiki/Java-Version) for questions related to which Java version to use.
## Common Problems
#### Getting error - Whitelabel Error Page - This application has no explicit mapping for /error...
This is a generic error page generated by Spring Boot. The root cause can be many different things. 

If you see this web page, you need to view the Spring Boot console messages to determine the root cause.  

#### Project wont start. Getting error:  java.net.BindException: Address already in use
May see in console log:
```
***************************
APPLICATION FAILED TO START
***************************

Description:

The Tomcat connector configured to listen on port 8080 failed to start. The port may already be in use or the connector may be misconfigured.

Action:

Verify the connector's configuration, identify and stop any process that's listening on port 8080, or configure this application to listen on another port.
```

This means another application is already running on port 8080. You need to find and stop the other application.

#### Database tables missing in H2 Database console. 
By default Spring Boot will configure the datasource as ```jdbc:h2:mem:testdb```

However, if running the H2 database console for the first time, the datasource URL is ```jdbc:h2:~/test```

What happens is the H2 database console is connecting to a different instance of the H2 database console, thus you will 
not see the database tables.

**Solution:** When connecting in the H2 Database Console, change the JDBC URL to ```jdbc:h2:mem:testdb``` 

#### Multi-Module Maven Project has error 'can't find Main class'
Spring Boot is trying to build an executable fat JAR with dependencies for a module that should be a normal JAR, thus looking 
for the main class for the JAR manifest file.

**Solution:** 
You need to tell the Spring Boot Maven Plugin to **not** repackage the jar. 

Add the following property to the Maven module you wish packaged as a normal jar. 

```xml
    <properties>
        <spring-boot.repackage.skip>true</spring-boot.repackage.skip>
    </properties>
```
**Note:** For Spring Boot 2.1 or Higher! This configuration has changed from earlier versions of Spring Boot.

#### Getting an error, but cannot find what is different from lesson source code.
Sometimes it can be a very small difference. You can use Git to report the differences between your code and the example
source code for the lesson. 

**Note:** This will only work if you've forked the original source code example to your GitHub repository.

1. Commit all of your changes.  
2. Add remote for original repo - ```git remote add sfgRepo github_url```
3. Fetch remote - ```git fetch sfgRepo```
4. Run diff - ```git diff HEAD..sfgRepo/master``` <- update branch name from master to desired branch for lesson

#### Error - java.lang.NoClassDefFoundError: javax/xml/bind/JAXBException
You are running Java 9+ and have not added the JAXB dependencies. 

Add the following dependencies to your Maven POM:

```xml
    <properties>
        <jaxb.version>2.3.0</jaxb.version>
    </properties>

    <dependencies>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>javax.xml.bind</groupId>
            <artifactId>jaxb-api</artifactId>
            <version>${jaxb.version}</version>
        </dependency>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>com.sun.xml.bind</groupId>
            <artifactId>jaxb-core</artifactId>
            <version>${jaxb.version}</version>
        </dependency>
        <dependency>
            <groupId>com.sun.xml.bind</groupId>
            <artifactId>jaxb-impl</artifactId>
            <version>${jaxb.version}</version>
        </dependency>
    </dependencies>        
```

#### JUnit 5 Tests are not running from Maven
There are several reasons for this, and a lot of bad advice on the internet. 

Please see this [blog post!](https://springframework.guru/why-your-junit-5-tests-are-not-running-under-maven/)

#### Spring Pet Clinic - CSS is not rendered, page is not styled. 
The CSS resources are generated with Maven. Thus if the project is cleaned, not built, or re-generated with IntelliJ
the CSS resources will not exist. 

**Solution:** Just build the project with Maven. ```mvn clean package```

#### Error 'No qualifying Bean of type [Java class name] found for dependency...'
Spring is looking for a bean of a specific type in the context, but is unable to find it. Error is because Spring
has not been configured to create a bean for the Java class indicated in the message.

This may be due to several different reasons, but when troubleshooting - keep in mind Spring is telling you
that Java class is missing from the context. You need to tell Spring to create a bean of that type.

Try the following:
1. Make sure you have a bean of the type configured.
    * Is the missing Java class annotated with a Spring stereotype - @Component, @Controller, @RestController, @Service, @Repository?
    * Or has the bean been declared in a Java configuration class using the @Bean annotation? 
2. Is the package of the Java class or configuration class being scanned?
    * By default, Spring Boot will do a component scan of the package of the main application class, and all sub-packages.
    A common mistake is to create a package outside of this package structure. (thus, Spring does not 'see' the configuration)
    * If the component is not under the package of the main application class, use the @ComponentScan annotation. See this 
    [link](https://springframework.guru/spring-component-scan/) for additional information.